# KCFed2016

[Website](https://kcfrb2016-wildcats1.github.io/KCFed2016/)


[YouTube Presentation](https://youtu.be/02sIo3d3Oq0)

Collaboration Station is a web application built by Alex Todd, Dalton Hahn, Lane Evans, and Ryan Bates; Computer and Information Sciences students at Kansas State University.  Wanting to increase the number of volunteer participants at community events and clubs, Collaboration Station attempts to consolidate volunteer requests and volunteer events into one location that group advisors and volunteer clubs can use.  By allowing event organizers to request volunteers with specific skills to help with their events, it allows those who may be looking to volunteer specific guidelines as to what they would be doing.  For example, if a Robotics club is hosting an after-school event and they need 5 volunteers who know Python, they could submit a volunteer request with 5 open slots for volunteer sign-ups and they could also list Python as one of the areas of interest that they would prefer the volunteers to have.


The goal of Collaboration Station is to bring students, organizers, and volunteers together to advocate and learn about technology.  Building a Javascript based web application supported by a Mongo Database, collaboration station attempts to provide this platform.  By using the Javascript SDK, Parse API, jQuery, and Mongo Database, we developed the base functionality for Collaboration Station.


When brainstorming for ideas on how to incorporate the theme, we attempted to identify areas where we could help the local community become more interested and learn more about technology.  We noticed that while there are many organizations and clubs throughout the community that are interested in these fields and what they have to offer, it is often difficult for them to find the help they need for their students.  For example, a middle school robotics club may have a math teacher as their advisor who can orient the students with the technology, but might not have the technical background to help with debugging and producing complex software.  Also, there may be a University student studying computer science who would be interested in volunteering and helping younger students learn about robotics and coding.  By being group and event focused, Collaboration Station provides a quick and easy way for volunteers to check what events are happening and whether or not they will be available to volunteer, as well as if their interests match the interests that the event will be hosting.  Collaboration Station can also be utilized by students who are interested in attending these events.  For example, a middle school may be hosting a robotics competition and a student from another school would like to participate.  By providing event information directly on that student’s feed, we provide a connection between event organizers and potential participants.


Ultimately, we envision Collaboration Station expanding to different areas of interest, as well as being used on a larger scale for volunteer efforts in other communities.  By scaling to provide more areas of interest in STEM fields, we will open our pool of available volunteers to incorporate other engineering disciplines, as well as potential science and math volunteers and participants.  Expanding to other communities also allows for greater involvement and volunteer opportunities.  Eventually, Collaboration Station could be used for everything from organizing after-school tutoring programs in a variety of fields and interests, to a tree-planting effort organized by a city’s Parks and Recreation Department.
